Feedback Paper Submission (#37)
ndaelman-hu/parse-patrol: paper/draft.tex

\begin{teamsubmission}{Parse Patrol}{Parse Patrol: Dual-Mode Scientific Parsing Infrastructure via MCP Servers}
\authorsblock{
    Nathan Daelman\textsuperscript{1}\orcidlink{0000-0002-7647-1816},
    Christina Ertural\textsuperscript{2}\orcidlink{0000-0002-7696-5824},
    Rubel Mozumber\textsuperscript{1}\orcidlink{0009-0007-5926-6646},
    Sascha Klawohn\textsuperscript{1}\orcidlink{0000-0003-4850-776X},
    Remya Ann Mathews Kalapurakal\textsuperscript{3} 
}
\affiliationsblock{
    \textsuperscript{1}Humboldt University of Berlin, 10117 Berlin, Germany\\
    \textsuperscript{2}Department of Materials Chemistry, Federal Institute for Materials Research and Testing, 12205 Berlin, Germany\\
    \textsuperscript{3}University of New Hampshire, 03824 Durham, NH, USA
}

\section*{Introduction}

Parsing scientific output files to extract structured data is by its very nature dependent on the input and output specifications.
These specifications may exist at a format level, a schema level, or more abstractly, an ontological one.

> Being dependent on both sides, makes parser infrastructure very brittle and labor-intensive to maintain.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Being dependent on input and output specifications makes parser infrastructure very brittle and labor-intensive to maintain.
```

Reviewer: For a quick grasp of this paper, I would like to see `both sides` explicitly. We can repeat the words twice, and they really refer to important entities in parsers, no? Probably only `input and output`.

This is a frequent issue in materials and chemistry databases and consortia.
Centralizing standards risks breaking existing parsers, while the uncoordinated community approach leaves projects vulnerable to funding cuts.\cite{best_of_atomistic_ml_general} 

Meanwhile, the rise of large language models (LLMs) has opened up new avenues for automating parser development. The complexity in centralizing parser infrastructure has created a natural opportunity for LLM-assisted tooling, since modern models can reason over heterogeneous file formats and dynamically adapt to evolving specifications.
Modern host environments, like IDEs, supply their LLM agents with testing, research, and other development tools.
However, effective use of LLMs requires a reliable interface for connecting models to external tools. MCP provides exactly this mechanism by standardizing how agents discover, invoke, and coordinate such tools.

> Anthropic published the Model Context Protocol (MCP)\cite{mcp2024} late last year, defining a general-purpose, host-agnostic interface for such toolkits.

Reviewer: Link for the MCP tutorial (very much requested for beginners).

 https://modelcontextprotocol.io/docs/getting-started/intro

Note that MCP does not provide any directives on how to structure tool organization: by default, one just extends the list of tools.
Our first technical innovation is thus to define a \textit{hierarchical protocol} for extending the MCP server.
Each parser is treated as its own MCP server.
This facilitates testing, as the developer can instantiate just that single server.
All MCP components are then automatically registered to the central, user-facing server.
This server predominantly adds its own engineered prompts for deploying tests or production.
Specifications are provided directly in the chat or as a separate file.
Test cases can be downloaded via database MCP servers.

While MCP enables interactive testing or one-off usage, production and en masse processing require actual code.

> Without explicit prompting, agents generate parsers from scratch rather than using MCP servers, relying on training data or attempting to locate MCP installation paths.

Author: Which phrase exactly? The first 2 phrases are also covered by the figure, but maybe we can improve their visual representation?

> Without explicit prompting, agents generate parsers from scratch rather than using MCP servers, relying on training data or attempting to locate MCP installation paths.

Reviewer: > Without explicit prompting, agents generate parsers from scratch rather than using MCP servers, relying on training data or attempting to locate MCP installation paths.

Sorry for the lack of proper info. 
I am not sure about the accuracy if an agent does something from scratch without an explicit prompt. It is too optimistic to be confused or? We may abandon the part or add a bit more of the agent action on a parser from scratch.

These specifications may exist at a format level, a schema level or more abstractly, an ontological one.
Being dependent on both sides, makes parser infrastructure very brittle and expensive to maintain.

This is a frequent issue in (materials and chemistry) databases, where results are uploaded in the native specifications of the hardware provider (for experiments), or code maintainer (for computations).
Meanwhile, as database consortia seek to structure these various schemas (and formats) into a more centralized standard, they risk breaking the output specifications of their parsers.
In short, the community needs a robust procedure for rapdily rolling out updates to the standards and schemas down to the infrastructure implementing them.
While the FOSS nature of most scientific projects enables a wide support, the uncoordinated approach of community leaves individual projects vulnerable to source or time cuts.\cite{}  

Parse-Patrol combines the best of both worlds, by building off publicly available community parsers and flexibly adapting their output-side via LLM.

> It does so via the recently published Model Context Protocol (MCP) framework\cite{mcp}, which has rapidly become an industry standard and is now supported by all major commercial models.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It does so via the recently published Model Context Protocol (MCP) framework\cite{mcp,mcp2024}, which has rapidly become an industry standard and is now supported by all major commercial models.
```

To cite the MCP format release by Anthropic
